---
title: "Halo: A Paper Prototype"
date: 2024-08-23
---



## Halo: A Paper Prototype

Would it be possible to make a paper prototype of a first-person shooter? Sure! You need different people to play the different AI characters as well as different players. Draw out the map on a big piece of graph paper, and get little game pieces to represent the different players and enemies. You need one person to control each of the players and one for each of the enemies. You could then either make some turn-based rules about how to move and shoot or get yourself a metronome! It is easy to find free metronome apps. Configure your metronome to tick once every five seconds, and make a rule that you can move one square of graph paper with every tick. When there is a line of sight, you can take a shot at another player or monster, but only one shot per tick. This will give the feeling of playing the whole thing in slow motion, but that can be a good thing, because it gives you time to think about what is working and not working while you are playing the game. You can get a great sense of how big your map should be, the shapes of hallways and rooms that make for an interesting game, the properties your weapons should have, and many other things—and you can do it all lightning fast!

## The chang of client
Halo, for instance, was originally in development as a Macintosh game. When a deal with Microsoft meant a change to PC, the team used it as an opportunity to throw out things that weren’t working and to iterate further on what they knew was good. A second windfall came when Microsoft asked them to change from PC to the newly announced Xbox! The extra time necessary to make technical changes also afforded time to iterate and improve gameplay. Because the designers took savvy advantage of those unplanned loops, the quality of the game went through the roof.